# Scientific Research: Agro-Based De-Icers

## Agro-Based Road Salt Additives: An Evaluation of the Ice-Melting Capacity, Ecotoxicity, and Corrosivity of Food-Derived Carbohydrates (May 2023 - August 2024)
*Abstract:* Despite being aﬀordable and accessible, traditional road salts have introduced pressing environmental and physical implications. Agro-based deicers decrease the concentration of NaCl required by trading in a carbohydrate-rich food product. Previous literature has shown that agro-based deicers may be a promising alternative that could alleviate the environmental and physical pressures of traditional road salts. This study observed prevalent carbohydrates found in fermented food waste–sucrose, fructose, and sorbitol–as NaCl additives. Each agro-based deicer’s performance and impact attributes were evaluated. The Mechanical Rocker Test for Ice-Melting Capacity (MRT-IMC) was used to determine deicing eﬀectiveness. Ecotoxicity was measured by examining the 24-hour lethality of Daphnia magna. Finally, physical impact was investigated by testing metal corrosion. This three-fold analysis was adopted to holistically analyze the eﬀectiveness and confounding eﬀects of novel, food-based road salt additives. The study concluded sorbitol as the best agro-based deicer additive, having outperformed 25.0 wt% NaCl by over 20%. It also mediated ecotoxicity–with a negative correlation between D. magna lethality and carbohydrate concentration–and presented powerful corrosion-inhibiting properties. These results shed light on the innovative formulation of deicers that could help support the sustainability of northern cities.
- Silver Medal @ Canada-Wide Science Fair '24
- [Submitted for AP Research (5/5)](https://github.com/erritax/Agro-Based-De-icers/blob/main/ErritaXu_APResearchReport.pdf)

## Road Salts: Its Implications and Exploring Agro-Based Alternatives (June 2022 - May 2023)
*Abstract:* Recognition of the environmental and physical implications caused by growing dependence on road salts has sparked urgency globally. From freshwater acidification to vegetation loss, the widespread use of road salts is further damaging and degrading urban ecosystems. To determine the best alternative, beet juice, corn juice, and grape skin agro-based de-icers were tested in comparison to sodium chloride (NaCl), the predominant road salt. Each treatment’s de-icing ability and environmental impact on vegetation were experimentally assessed. It was concluded that beet juice was the most effective and least environmentally toxic agro-based de-icer, as well as being the most affordable, accessible, and socially feasible.
- Bronze Medal @ Canada-Wide Science Fair '23
- [Published in the Canadian Science Fair Journal](https://csfjournal.com/volume-6-issue-3-1/2023/11/20/road-salts-its-implications-and-exploring-agro-based-alternatives)
